Grammar: ValueSet 6.0
Namespace: breastrad

ValueSet: AbnormalityTypeVS
Description: "Abnormality Type value
"
    #Abscess "A local accumulation of pus anywhere in the body."
    #PostSurgicalScar "Scar tissue forms as part of the healing process after a skin injury. A scar is fibrous tissue made of collagen that replaces the injured skin."
    #PathologicalLymphNode "Localized adenopathy should prompt a search for an adjacent precipitating lesion and an examination of other nodal areas to rule out generalized lymphadenopathy. In general, lymph nodes greater than 1 cm in diameter are considered to be abnormal. Supraclavicular nodes are the most worrisome for malignancy."
    #Nodule "A small collection of tissue that is palpable (can be felt) at any level of the skin (in the epidermis, dermis, or subcutis) or in another tissue of the body."
    #Node "Node: Literally a knot, a node is a collection of tissue. For example a lymph node, is a collection of lymphoid tissue. A nodule is a small node, a little collection of tissue."
    #MastitisArea "Mastitis is an inflammation of breast tissue that sometimes involves an infection. The inflammation results in breast pain, swelling, warmth and redness. ... Mastitis most commonly affects women who are breast-feeding (lactation mastitis). But mastitis can occur in women who aren't breast-feeding and in men."
    #Mass "A lump in the body. It may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction."
    #Lipoma "A lipoma is a slow-growing, fatty lump that's most often situated between your skin and the underlying muscle layer."
    #Hematoma "A breast hematoma is a collection of blood that forms under the skin's surface. It's not unlike having a large bruise in your breast. The mass it forms is not cancerous, but it can sometimes lead to inflammation, fever, skin discoloration, and may leave behind scar tissue that mimics the shape of a breast tumor."
    #Hamartoma "A hamartoma is a mostly benign, focal malformation that resembles a neoplasm in the tissue of its origin."
    #ForeignBody "A foreign object is something that is in the body but doesn't belong there."
    #FluidCollection "A mild buildup of fluid is common after surgery and does not necessarily mean a seroma will appear."
    #FibrocysticTissue "Fibrocystic breast changes lead to the development of fluid-filled round or oval sacs (cysts) and more prominent scar-like (fibrous) tissue, which can make breasts feel tender, lumpy or ropy."
    #FibroadenomaDegeneration "Predominant cystic degeneration of the tumor that grossly constitutes most of the tumor, so called 'cystic fibroadenoma,' is rare."
    #Fibroadenoma "Fibroadenoma is the most common type of benign breast tumor, and most don't increase your risk of breast cancer. Although women of any age can develop fibroadenomas, they usually occur in younger, premenopausal women."
    #FatNecrosis "Fat necrosis is a lump of dead or damaged breast tissue that sometimes appears after breast surgery, radiation, or another trauma. Fat necrosis is harmless and doesn't increase your cancer risk. It usually isn't painful, but it can cause anxiety. You should tell your doctor about any lumps you feel in your breast."
    #DuctEctasia "Mammary duct ectasia occurs when a milk duct beneath the nipple becomes wider (dilated) and filled with fluid. The milk duct can then become blocked or clogged with a thick, sticky substance."
    #DuctDialated "Expanded normally or abnormally in all dimensions."
    #Cyst "Circumscribed, round or oval, fluid-filled mass with an imperceptible wall; usually bright on T2W images"
    #Calcification "Typically benign"
    #BrachytherapyCatheter "Brachytherapy is seldom used in children. ... Temporary brachytherapy places radioactive material inside a catheter for a specific amount of time and then removes it. It is given at a low-dose rate (LDR) or high-dose rate (HDR). Permanent brachytherapy is also called seed implantation."
    #Asymmetry "Involve a spectrum of mammographic findings that represent unilateral deposits of fibroglandular tissue not conforming to the definition of a radiodense mass."
    #Area "A limited space or plane surface."
    #ArchitecturalDistortion "The parenchyma is distorted with no definite mass visible."
    #Seroma "A seroma is a pocket of clear serous fluid that sometimes develops in the body after surgery. This fluid is composed of blood plasma that has seeped out of ruptured small blood vessels and inflammatory fluid produced by the injured and dying cells."
    #SignalVoidArea "The term 'flow void' is widely used among radiologists and others involved in MR imaging. It refers to the low signal seen in vessels that contain vigorously flowing blood and is generally synonymous with vascular patency. Flow voids can also be seen with active flow or pulsations of other fluids, like CSF or urine."
