Grammar: ValueSet 5.1
Namespace: breastrad

ValueSet: CalcificationTypeVS
Description: "Calcification Type
"
    #Amorphous "Amorphous or indistinct calcifications are defined as 'without a clearly defined shape or form'. These calcifications are usually so small or hazy in appearance, that a more specific morphologic classification cannot be determined."
    #Spherical "No definition found."
    #Skin "Usually lucent-centered and pathognomonic in appearance."
    #Round "May vary in size and, therefore, also in opacity (when < 0.5 mm, the term 'punctate' should be used)."
    #Rim "Appear as calcium deposited on the surface of a sphere (usually < 1 mm in thickness when viewed on edge)."
    #Punctate "Breast calcifications are small calcium deposits that develop in a woman's breast tissue. They are very common and are usually benign (noncancerous). ... Macrocalcifications are common -- they are found in approximately half of women over age 50, and one in 10 women under age 50 -- and are considered noncancerous."
    #PleomorphicADDFine "Microcalcifications that vary in size and shape are of more concern — you may hear these referred to as 'pleomorphic calcifications' — and they may be clustered in a specific area of the breast. Although breast calcifications are usually noncancerous (benign), certain patterns of calcifications — such as tight clusters with irregular shapes and fine appearance — may indicate breast cancer or precancerous changes to breast tissue."
    #None "No calcifications present."
    #MilkOfCalcium "A manifestation of sedimented calcifications in macro- or microcysts, usually but not always grouped. Refer to lexicon classification form for complete description."
    #LucentCentered "They are different from malignant-type fine branching calcifications, because they are usually > 1 mm in diameter. They may have lucent centers if the calcium is in the wall of the duct. These calcifications follow a ductal distribution, radiating toward the nipple and are usually bilateral."
    #LinearADDFine "These are suspicious calcifications arranged in a line or showing a branching pattern, suggesting deposits in a duct. Although breast calcifications are usually noncancerous (benign), certain patterns of calcifications — such as tight clusters with irregular shapes and fine appearance — may indicate breast cancer or precancerous changes to breast tissue."
    #Layering "Benign calcifications: These are described as layered, tea-cup shaped, or milk of calcium. These are from benign causes such as fibrocystic breast changes or ruptured breast cysts."
    #LargeRodLike "Associated with ductal ectasia, may form solid or discontinuous, smooth linear rods, usually ≥ 0.5 mm in diameter."
    #Indistinct "near and segmentally distributed calcifications are arranged in a line or branching pattern, indicating that the deposits are in a duct and these tend to be malignant, since most of the common malignancies are ductal."
    #Heterogeneous "Coarse heterogeneous calcifications are irregular calcifications that are between 0.5 mm and 1 mm in size. They are usually in a group and are smaller in size than dystrophic calcifications. ... Coarse heterogeneous calcifications in a linear or segmental distribution are suspicious."
    #GenericCalcification "Breast calcifications are small calcium deposits that develop in a woman's breast tissue. They are very common and are usually benign (noncancerous). In some instances, certain types of breast calcifications may suggest early breast cancer."
    #Fine "Although breast calcifications are usually noncancerous (benign), certain patterns of calcifications — such as tight clusters with irregular shapes and fine appearance — may indicate breast cancer or precancerous changes to breast tissue."
    #Eggshell "These are very thin benign calcifications that appear as calcium is deposited on the surface of a sphere."
    #Dystrophic "Irregular in shape and usually > 1 mm in size; often with lucent centers"
    #Coarse "These calcifications are classic, large (> 2 to 3 mm in greatest diameter), and produced by an involuting fibroadenoma."
    #Suture "Typically linear or tubular in appearance; when present, knots are frequently visible."
    #Vascular "Parallel tracks or linear, tubular calcifications that are clearly associated with blood vessels"
